readme.md, before:

# Infra:

## Image registry service
Run a containerised docker image registry service for allowing local cluster to access it:
```bash
cd docker-registry
docker-compose up -d
``` 

## Opensearch service with dashboard
This will be the sink where fluentd will forward logs. Logs will be searchable here based on multiple criteria. More info about opensearch can be found here: https://www.opensearch.org/downloads.html#docker-compose

```bash
cd opensearch
docker-compose up -d
```
The opensearch host runs at http://localhost:9200 and opensearch dashboard can be opened on browser at http://localhost:5601

## Cluser setup
This demo uses [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/).

Run a local cluster.
```bash
minikube start --insecure-registry=host.minikube.internal:5000 --driver=docker
```

Enable ingress addon.

```bash
minikube addons enable ingress
```

### ⚠️ Ingress-dns addon is not working in windows.
**Instead, use `minikube tunnel` and add entry for the ingress host in the windows hosts file pointing to 127.0.0.1.** 

**The section below is kept for future investigation.**

Enable [ingress dns](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/addons/ingress-dns/) addon. Ingress dns addon will help with nslookup from host system without modification of hosts file.
```bash
minikube addons enable ingress-dns
```

Add `minikube ip` as a dns server for resolving `.minik8s` domains. We will use this as the `top level domain` for all ingress hosts requiring external access.
```powershell
$namespace='.minik8s'
Get-DnsClientNrptRule | Where-Object {$_.Namespace -eq $namespace} | Remove-DnsClientNrptRule -Force; Add-DnsClientNrptRule -Namespace $namespace -NameServers "$(minikube ip)"
```

# Fluentd deployment:
https://docs.fluentd.org/container-deployment/kubernetes

Deploy fluentd as a daemonset to the cluster so that an instance of it runs in every node on the cluster. We are using bitnami chart which uses [forwarder-aggregator pattern](https://fluentbit.io/blog/2020/12/03/common-architecture-patterns-with-fluentd-and-fluent-bit/).
```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update
cd fluentd
helm install fluentd-release -f values.yaml bitnami/fluentd
# Read more about the installation in the Fluentd packaged by Bitnami Chart Github repository
```

# App deployment:

Steps:
1. Build, tag and push sampleWebAPI docker image to the docker registry service:
```bash
cd sampleWebAPI
docker build --no-cache -t samplewebapi:latest  -f SampleWebAPI/Dockerfile --build-arg projectName=SampleWebAPI .
docker tag samplewebapi:latest localhost:5000/samplewebapi:latest
docker push localhost:5000/samplewebapi:latest
```

2. Deploy sampleWebAPI in local cluster using its helm chart:
```bash
helm install samplewebapi ./tools/chart/samplewebapi
```

# Viewing logs in OpenSearch Dashboard

Browse to http://localhost:5601 to open the opensearch dashboard. Create an index with pattern `logstash-*`. 

There are multiple ways to browse and filter logs.

* You can view logs in the `discover` section of opensearch dashboard. You can use [DQL](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/dql/) to filter logs. 
* You can open the `Query Workbench` section and use [Opensearch SQL](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/sql/index/).

Commit message:

update log output template for samplewebapi to make exception start at the same line

readme.md, after:

# Infra:

## Image registry service
Run a containerised docker image registry service for allowing local cluster to access it:
```bash
cd docker-registry
docker-compose up -d
``` 

## Opensearch service with dashboard
This will be the sink where fluentd will forward logs. Logs will be searchable here based on multiple criteria. More info about opensearch can be found here: https://www.opensearch.org/downloads.html#docker-compose

```bash
cd opensearch
docker-compose up -d
```
The opensearch host runs at http://localhost:9200 and opensearch dashboard can be opened on browser at http://localhost:5601

## Cluser setup
This demo uses [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/).

Run a local cluster.
```bash
minikube start --insecure-registry=host.minikube.internal:5000 --driver=docker
```

Enable ingress addon.

```bash
minikube addons enable ingress
```

### ⚠️ Ingress-dns addon is not working in windows.
**Instead, use `minikube tunnel` and add entry for the ingress host in the windows hosts file pointing to 127.0.0.1.** 

**The section below is kept for future investigation.**

Enable [ingress dns](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/addons/ingress-dns/) addon. Ingress dns addon will help with nslookup from host system without modification of hosts file.
```bash
minikube addons enable ingress-dns
```

Add `minikube ip` as a dns server for resolving `.minik8s` domains. We will use this as the `top level domain` for all ingress hosts requiring external access.
```powershell
$namespace='.minik8s'
Get-DnsClientNrptRule | Where-Object {$_.Namespace -eq $namespace} | Remove-DnsClientNrptRule -Force; Add-DnsClientNrptRule -Namespace $namespace -NameServers "$(minikube ip)"
```

# Fluentd deployment:
https://docs.fluentd.org/container-deployment/kubernetes

Deploy fluentd as a daemonset to the cluster so that an instance of it runs in every node on the cluster. We are using bitnami chart which uses [forwarder-aggregator pattern](https://fluentbit.io/blog/2020/12/03/common-architecture-patterns-with-fluentd-and-fluent-bit/).
```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update
cd fluentd
helm install fluentd-release -f values.yaml bitnami/fluentd
# Read more about the installation in the Fluentd packaged by Bitnami Chart Github repository
```

# App:

## Note:
The app uses following output template for log.
```
[{Timestamp:HH:mm:ss} {Level:u3}] {Application} | {Message} | RequestId={RequestId} | {Exception}{NewLine}
```
For the fluentd detect_exception plugin to work, iIt is important that there is no line break before exception. The template must end with a line break, since serilog console logger does not add newline between logs.

## Deployment:

Steps:
1. Build, tag and push sampleWebAPI docker image to the docker registry service:
```bash
cd sampleWebAPI
docker build --no-cache -t samplewebapi:latest  -f SampleWebAPI/Dockerfile --build-arg projectName=SampleWebAPI .
docker tag samplewebapi:latest localhost:5000/samplewebapi:latest
docker push localhost:5000/samplewebapi:latest
```

2. Deploy sampleWebAPI in local cluster using its helm chart:
```bash
helm install samplewebapi ./tools/chart/samplewebapi
```

# Viewing logs in OpenSearch Dashboard

Browse to http://localhost:5601 to open the opensearch dashboard. Create an index with pattern `logstash-*`. 

There are multiple ways to browse and filter logs.

* You can view logs in the `discover` section of opensearch dashboard. You can use [DQL](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/dql/) to filter logs. 
* You can open the `Query Workbench` section and use [Opensearch SQL](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/sql/index/).
